." Hi! This manual (man page) was written by dd86k.
." Please read man-pages(7) and groff_man(7) about the manual page format.
." Don't forget to respect the format of this document!
."
.TH ddhx 1 "June 2019" dd86k "User manual"
.SH NAME
ddhx - Interactive hexadecimal file viewer.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY ddhx
.OP \-w width
.OP \-o offset
.OP \-m mode
.RI file
.IR
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ddhx
is a fast interactive hexadecimal terminal file viewer with several search features.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP file
File to open.

.IP width
Set width in bytes of the display in bytes.

.SH SHORTCUTS

.IP q
Quits (closes) the program

.IP ENTER
Enters prompt

.IP a
Auto-adjust screen width (bytes per row).

.IP i
Displays file information.

.IP r|F5
Repaint display entirely.

.SH PROMPT COMMANDS
Pressing
.B ESC
or
.BR "ENTER" " (" "RETURN" ")"
will enter prompt mode, where commands can be entered.

Some commands have an alias which is described before the '|' (pipe) character.

.SS g|goto <Number>
Goto to position <Number> (bytes) in file.

.B Examples:
.RS
.EX
goto 1200
g 8001h
g 0x1381
.EE
.RE

.SS i|info
Display file information.

.SS o|offset <OffsetType>
Change offset type. Possible values are o (octal), d (decimal), or h (hexadecimal).

.B Example:
.RS
.EX
offset decimal
o h
.EE
.RE

.SS s|search <Type> <Value>
Search for data.

.B Types:
.RS
.EX
- u8
- u16
- u32
- u64
- utf8
- utf16
.EE
.RE

.SS ss <Value>
Search UTF-8 string alias.

.B sb <Value>
Search byte alias.

.B r|refresh <Offset>
Refresh all panels and displays.

.SH NAVIGATION
Currently, the modifier key states on Posix platforms are unavailable. You are invited to use the
.B goto
command with the 
.BR "end" " and " "start".
aliases.

.B
.IP Up/Down Arrows
Go backward or forward by a line by the screen width in bytes.

.B
.IP Left/Right Arrow
Go backward or forward a byte.

.B
.IP Home/End
Align to the line by screen width in bytes.

.B
.IP ^Home/^End
Go to begining or end of file.

.".SH FILE ATTRIBUTES
."The information command will display different file attributes on different platforms:
."
.".SS Under Windows
."
."On Windows, the following file attributes (NTFS) will be displayed:
.".IP r
."Read-only. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_READONLY)
.".IP h
."Hidden. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_HIDDEN)
.".IP s
."System. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_SYSTEM)
.".IP a
."Archive. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_ARCHIVE)
.".IP t
."Temporary. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY)
.".IP S
."Sparse file. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_SPARSE_FILE)
.".IP c
."Compressed. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_COMPRESSED)
.".IP e
."Encrypted. (FILE_ATTRIBUTE_ENCRYPTED)
.".RE
."
.".SS Under Posix-compilant systems
."
.".RB "The symbolic file permissions are displayed (not exactly like the output of " "ls -l" ")."
."The last character is the sticky bit indicator
.".RB "('" "t" "')."

.SH WARNINGS
ddhx is still currently going under active development. Expect lots of bugs and crashes!

.SH NOTES
ddhx will clear the output on exit.

.SH BUGS
Currently, string searching may be inacurate with small chunks.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by dd86k.

.SH CONTACT
.UR https://github.com/dd86k/ddhx
Homepage:
.UE

.MT dd@dax.moe
Email:
.ME

.SH HISTORY
